src/docs/sphinx/ExampleIntegrations.rst, before:

.. ############################################################################
.. # Copyright (c) 2015-2017, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.. #
.. # Produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
.. #
.. # LLNL-CODE-716457
.. #
.. # All rights reserved.
.. #
.. # This file is part of Conduit.
.. #
.. # For details, see: http://software.llnl.gov/alpine/.
.. #
.. # Please also read alpine/LICENSE
.. #
.. # Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.. # modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.. #
.. # * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer below.
.. #
.. # * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer (as noted below) in the
.. #   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.. #
.. # * Neither the name of the LLNS/LLNL nor the names of its contributors may
.. #   be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.. #   specific prior written permission.
.. #
.. # THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.. # AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.. # IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.. # ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL SECURITY,
.. # LLC, THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.. # DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.. # DAMAGES  (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.. # OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.. # HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.. # STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.. # IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.. # POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.. #
.. ############################################################################


Example Integrations
--------------------
Alpine comes with three example integrations:

  - Lulesh: a lagrangian shock hydrodynamics code 
  - Kripke: a deterministic neutron transport code
  - CloverLeaf3D: an eulerian hydrodynamics code

.. note::
  All three example codes use both MPI and OpenMP for hybrid parallelism.

Lulesh
^^^^^^

Lulesh is a proxy-application for LLNL's production ALE3D code. 
Lulesh in programmed in C++ and uses an unstructured mesh. 
More information about Lulesh can be found at `https://codesign.llnl.gov/lulesh.php <https://codesign.llnl.gov/lulesh.php>`_.

The Alpine integration can be found in two locations.
Lulesh's mesh description can be found at line 189 in ``/src/examples/proxies/lulesh2.0.3/lulesh-init.cc``, and the Alpine API usage can be found in the simulations main loop beginning at line 2769 in the file ``/src/examples/proxies/lulesh2.0.3/lulesh.cc``.

Running Lulesh
""""""""""""""
Alpine will create two versions of lulesh, one serial and one MPI parallel, but both versions are capable of using OpenMP.
Lulesh takes several command line arguments, but the most useful are:
  
  - ``-p`` prints the progress of the solver as the simulation progresses
  - ``-i {number of iterations}`` how many iterations to run the simulation. Note: this is not a guarantee, since Lulesh has other termination criteria.  
  - ``-s {per node problem size}`` defines the problem size to run on each node. The larger the value, the longer the times steps will be take to calculate

.. note::
  When running lulesh in parallel, the number of MPI processes must be a perfect cube. For example, some valid numbers of MPI tasks would be 1, 2, 8, and 27.

The command below would launch Lulesh for 10 iterations with a problem size of 32^3 zones per node (8*32^3 = 262,144 total zones):

.. code-block:: bash

  srun -n 8 lulesh_par -i 10 -s 32

CloverLeaf3D
^^^^^^^^^^^^
CloverLeaf3D is a proxy-application from the Atomic Weapons Establishment (AWE) that can be found at `http://uk-mac.github.io/CloverLeaf3D <http://uk-mac.github.io/CloverLeaf3D>`_.
CloverLeaf is written in Fortran90.
The data integration can be found in the file ``src/examples/proxies/cloverleaf3d-ref/visit.F90``, and the Alpine API in the main loop can be found at ``src/examples/proxies/cloverleaf3d-ref/hydro.F90`` starting at line 46.
CloverLeaf3D uses ghost zones, thus they have to be stripped each time step before being passed to Alpine.

Running CloverLeaf3D
""""""""""""""""""""
Unlike the other two example integrations, CloverLeaf3D uses an input deck to describe the problem setup.
There are a number of example problems in the CloverLeaf3D source directory, and one (`clover.in`) is copied into the build directory.

.. code-block:: text

   *clover
   state 1 density=0.2 energy=1.0
   state 2 density=1.0 energy=2.5 geometry=cuboid xmin=0.0 xmax=5.0 ymin=0.0 ymax=2.0 zmin=0.0 zmax=2.0
   x_cells=10
   y_cells=2
   z_cells=2
   xmin=0.0
   ymin=0.0
   zmin=0.0
   xmax=10.0
   ymax=2.0
   zmax=2.0
   initial_timestep=0.04
   max_timestep=0.04
   end_step=75
   test_problem 1

   visit_frequency=10
   *endclover

Important variables to keep note of are:

 - ``state`` defines different areas with in the mesh, their shape, and the amount of initial energy deposited in them.
 - ``x_cells`` defines the number of cells in the x direction
 - ``xmin`` and ``xmax`` defines the spatial extents in the x direction for the problem
 - ``visit_freqency`` defines often the Alpine API is called

Kripke
^^^^^^
Kripke is a scalable deterministic neutron transport solver that has an embedded test problem.
More information about Kripke can be found at `https://codesign.llnl.gov/kripke.php <https://codesign.llnl.gov/kripke.php>`_.
Unlike the other two proxy-applications, Kripke does not have discrete time steps.
Instead, the simulation represents a single moment in time and the iterations converge to a solution for the problem.

The both the Alpine API calls and the data integration can be found in ``src/examples/proxies/kripke/Kripke/Sweep_Solver.cpp``.
Kripke is meant to study the efficiency of different loop orderings and memory layouts for different architectures which makes zero copying the data difficult.
Thus, the data is extracted each iteration.
Mesh data extraction can be found starting at line 20, and the API calls can be found at line 101.

Running Kripke
""""""""""""""
Kripke take many command line parameters, and there is an example script that is copied into the directory where Kripke is built.

.. code-block:: bash

  srun -n 8 kripke_par --procs 2,2,2 --zones 32,32,32 --niter 5 --dir 1:2 --grp 1:1 --legendre 4 --quad 4:4

The parameters that control the problem size and layout are:

  - ``--procs`` controls the layout of the MPI processes over the mesh. In the example, we launch 8 total MPI tasks and distribute them evenly in each coordinate direction. The cross product of this argument must equal the number of MPI tasks, e.g. 2x2x2 = 8. Another valid value for 8 MPI tasks is ``1,1,8``.
  - ``--zones`` controls the number of zones in each coordinate direction of the problem mesh. In this case, the total mesh size is 32^3, and the number of zones for each MPI task will be 16^3. This is simple zones / procs, e.g. 32/2, 32/2, 32/2.
  - ``--niter`` controls the number of iterations. Note: as the solver converges on a solution, the images will differ less and less.

Commit message:

the second great renaming (#38)
* the second great renaming

* renaming ascent_ascent file

* renaming uber packages

* more spack renaming

* small name change

* adding package for szip since the file has changed on the hdf5 website

* fixing spack package call

* adding install to szip

* updating conduit v0.2.1 checksum since it somehow changed.

* Renaming FindAscent.cmake in using with cmake example

* fixing travis config

* further fixes to travis config

* Updating clip to the lastest vtkm master

src/docs/sphinx/ExampleIntegrations.rst, after:

.. ############################################################################
.. # Copyright (c) 2015-2017, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.. #
.. # Produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
.. #
.. # LLNL-CODE-716457
.. #
.. # All rights reserved.
.. #
.. # This file is part of Conduit.
.. #
.. # For details, see: http://software.llnl.gov/ascent/.
.. #
.. # Please also read ascent/LICENSE
.. #
.. # Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.. # modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.. #
.. # * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer below.
.. #
.. # * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer (as noted below) in the
.. #   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.. #
.. # * Neither the name of the LLNS/LLNL nor the names of its contributors may
.. #   be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.. #   specific prior written permission.
.. #
.. # THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.. # AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.. # IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.. # ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL SECURITY,
.. # LLC, THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.. # DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.. # DAMAGES  (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.. # OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.. # HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.. # STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.. # IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.. # POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.. #
.. ############################################################################


Example Integrations
--------------------
Ascent comes with three example integrations:

  - Lulesh: a lagrangian shock hydrodynamics code 
  - Kripke: a deterministic neutron transport code
  - CloverLeaf3D: an eulerian hydrodynamics code

.. note::
  All three example codes use both MPI and OpenMP for hybrid parallelism.

Lulesh
^^^^^^

Lulesh is a proxy-application for LLNL's production ALE3D code. 
Lulesh in programmed in C++ and uses an unstructured mesh. 
More information about Lulesh can be found at `https://codesign.llnl.gov/lulesh.php <https://codesign.llnl.gov/lulesh.php>`_.

The Ascent integration can be found in two locations.
Lulesh's mesh description can be found at line 189 in ``/src/examples/proxies/lulesh2.0.3/lulesh-init.cc``, and the Ascent API usage can be found in the simulations main loop beginning at line 2769 in the file ``/src/examples/proxies/lulesh2.0.3/lulesh.cc``.

Running Lulesh
""""""""""""""
Ascent will create two versions of lulesh, one serial and one MPI parallel, but both versions are capable of using OpenMP.
Lulesh takes several command line arguments, but the most useful are:
  
  - ``-p`` prints the progress of the solver as the simulation progresses
  - ``-i {number of iterations}`` how many iterations to run the simulation. Note: this is not a guarantee, since Lulesh has other termination criteria.  
  - ``-s {per node problem size}`` defines the problem size to run on each node. The larger the value, the longer the times steps will be take to calculate

.. note::
  When running lulesh in parallel, the number of MPI processes must be a perfect cube. For example, some valid numbers of MPI tasks would be 1, 2, 8, and 27.

The command below would launch Lulesh for 10 iterations with a problem size of 32^3 zones per node (8*32^3 = 262,144 total zones):

.. code-block:: bash

  srun -n 8 lulesh_par -i 10 -s 32

CloverLeaf3D
^^^^^^^^^^^^
CloverLeaf3D is a proxy-application from the Atomic Weapons Establishment (AWE) that can be found at `http://uk-mac.github.io/CloverLeaf3D <http://uk-mac.github.io/CloverLeaf3D>`_.
CloverLeaf is written in Fortran90.
The data integration can be found in the file ``src/examples/proxies/cloverleaf3d-ref/visit.F90``, and the Ascent API in the main loop can be found at ``src/examples/proxies/cloverleaf3d-ref/hydro.F90`` starting at line 46.
CloverLeaf3D uses ghost zones, thus they have to be stripped each time step before being passed to Ascent.

Running CloverLeaf3D
""""""""""""""""""""
Unlike the other two example integrations, CloverLeaf3D uses an input deck to describe the problem setup.
There are a number of example problems in the CloverLeaf3D source directory, and one (`clover.in`) is copied into the build directory.

.. code-block:: text

   *clover
   state 1 density=0.2 energy=1.0
   state 2 density=1.0 energy=2.5 geometry=cuboid xmin=0.0 xmax=5.0 ymin=0.0 ymax=2.0 zmin=0.0 zmax=2.0
   x_cells=10
   y_cells=2
   z_cells=2
   xmin=0.0
   ymin=0.0
   zmin=0.0
   xmax=10.0
   ymax=2.0
   zmax=2.0
   initial_timestep=0.04
   max_timestep=0.04
   end_step=75
   test_problem 1

   visit_frequency=10
   *endclover

Important variables to keep note of are:

 - ``state`` defines different areas with in the mesh, their shape, and the amount of initial energy deposited in them.
 - ``x_cells`` defines the number of cells in the x direction
 - ``xmin`` and ``xmax`` defines the spatial extents in the x direction for the problem
 - ``visit_freqency`` defines often the Ascent API is called

Kripke
^^^^^^
Kripke is a scalable deterministic neutron transport solver that has an embedded test problem.
More information about Kripke can be found at `https://codesign.llnl.gov/kripke.php <https://codesign.llnl.gov/kripke.php>`_.
Unlike the other two proxy-applications, Kripke does not have discrete time steps.
Instead, the simulation represents a single moment in time and the iterations converge to a solution for the problem.

The both the Ascent API calls and the data integration can be found in ``src/examples/proxies/kripke/Kripke/Sweep_Solver.cpp``.
Kripke is meant to study the efficiency of different loop orderings and memory layouts for different architectures which makes zero copying the data difficult.
Thus, the data is extracted each iteration.
Mesh data extraction can be found starting at line 20, and the API calls can be found at line 101.

Running Kripke
""""""""""""""
Kripke take many command line parameters, and there is an example script that is copied into the directory where Kripke is built.

.. code-block:: bash

  srun -n 8 kripke_par --procs 2,2,2 --zones 32,32,32 --niter 5 --dir 1:2 --grp 1:1 --legendre 4 --quad 4:4

The parameters that control the problem size and layout are:

  - ``--procs`` controls the layout of the MPI processes over the mesh. In the example, we launch 8 total MPI tasks and distribute them evenly in each coordinate direction. The cross product of this argument must equal the number of MPI tasks, e.g. 2x2x2 = 8. Another valid value for 8 MPI tasks is ``1,1,8``.
  - ``--zones`` controls the number of zones in each coordinate direction of the problem mesh. In this case, the total mesh size is 32^3, and the number of zones for each MPI task will be 16^3. This is simple zones / procs, e.g. 32/2, 32/2, 32/2.
  - ``--niter`` controls the number of iterations. Note: as the solver converges on a solution, the images will differ less and less.
