src/docs/sphinx/Overview.rst, before:

.. ############################################################################
.. # Copyright (c) 2015-2017, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.. #
.. # Produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
.. #
.. # LLNL-CODE-716457
.. #
.. # All rights reserved.
.. #
.. # This file is part of Conduit.
.. #
.. # For details, see: http://software.llnl.gov/alpine/.
.. #
.. # Please also read alpine/LICENSE
.. #
.. # Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.. # modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.. #
.. # * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer below.
.. #
.. # * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer (as noted below) in the
.. #   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.. #
.. # * Neither the name of the LLNS/LLNL nor the names of its contributors may
.. #   be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.. #   specific prior written permission.
.. #
.. # THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.. # AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.. # IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.. # ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL SECURITY,
.. # LLC, THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.. # DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.. # DAMAGES  (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.. # OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.. # HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.. # STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.. # IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.. # POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.. #
.. ############################################################################


Alpine Overview
=================

This overview was distilled from `Alpine: A Batch In Situ Visualization and Analysis Infrastructure for Multi-Physics Simulation Codes <http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2828625>`_ . This paper was presented at the `ISAV 2015 Workshop <http://vis.lbl.gov/Events/ISAV-2015/>`_, held in conjunction with SC 15, on November 16th 2015 in Austin, TX, USA.

Requirements
-------------------
To guide the development of Alpine, we focused on a set of important in situ visualization and analysis requirements extracted from our interactions and experiences with several simulation code teams. Here are Alpine's requirements broken out into three broader categories:

Support a diverse set of simulations on many-core architectures.
  - Support execution on many-core architectures
  - Support  usage  within  a  batch  environment (i.e.,no simulation user involvement once the simulation has begun running).
  - Support the four most common languages used by simulation code teams:  C, C++, Python, and Fortran.
  - Support for multiple data models, including uniform, rectilinear, and unstructured grids.
  
Provide a streamlined interface to improve usability.
  - Provide  straight  forward  data  ownership  semantics between simulation routines and visualization and analysis routines
  - Provide a low-barrier to entry with respect to developer time for integration.
  - Ease-of-use in terms of directing visualization and analysis actions to occur during runtime.
  - Ease-of-use in terms of consuming visualization results, including delivery mechanisms both for images on a file system and for streaming to a web browser.
  
Minimize  the  resource  impacts  on  host  simulations.
  - Synchronous in situ processing, meaning that visualization and analysis routines can directly access the memory of a simulation code.
  - Efficient execution times that do not significantly slow down overall simulation time.
  - Minimal memory usage, including zero-copy usage when bringing data from simulation routines to visualization and analysis routines.


System Architecture
-------------------
The Alpine sytem architecture is composed of several components:
  * **Conduit**: `Conduit <http://software.llnl.gov/conduit/>`_  is used to describe and pass in-core mesh data and pipeline options from the simulation code to Alpine.
  * **In Situ Pipelines**: Alpine contains a number of in situ pipelines that implement simple analysis, rendering, and I/O operations on the mesh data published to Alpine. At a high level, a pipeline is responsible for consuming the simulation data that is described using the Conduit Mesh Blueprint and performing a number of actions defined within Conduit Nodes, which create some form of output.
  * **Data Adapters**: Simulation mesh data is described using Conduit's `Mesh Blueprint <http://software.llnl.gov/conduit/blueprint_mesh.html>`_, which outlines a set of conventions to describe different types of mesh-based scientific data. Alpine provides internal Data Adaptors that convert Mesh Blueprint data into a more a more specific data model, such as VTK-m's data model. Alpine will always zero-copy simulation data when possible. To simplify memory ownership semantics, the data provided to Alpine via Conduit Nodes is considered to be owned by the by the simulation.
  * **IceT**: Alpine uses IceT for scalable distributed memory parallel image compositing.
  * **Embedded Web Server**: Alpine can stream images rendered from a running simulation to a web browser using the Conduit Relay's embedded web-server.


System Diagram
--------------
..  image:: images/AlpineSystemDiagram.png
    :height: 600px
    :align: center


Pipelines
-----------------
  Alpine can be configured with one or more of the following pipelines. 
  When multiple pipelines are built with Alpine, available pipelines can be selected at runtime.
  A pipeline has three main functions: consume simulation data, perfrom analysis (optional), and output data.
  Data describing the simulation mesh is sent to the pipeline within a Conduit Node which is formatted according to `Conduit Blueprint <http://software.llnl.gov/conduit/blueprint.html>`_.
  Once the data is in a compatible format, the pipeline can optionally perfrom some analysis operations, and then output the results. 
  Currently, the VTK-m pipeline output images to either the file system or to the web browser, and the HDF5 pipeline creates and HDF5 file.




VTK-m
"""""
  VTK-m v1.0 is a header only library (future versions will exist as a static or shared library) that uses a data-parallel programming model.
  VTK-m was created from the merging of three efforts: DAX, EAVL, and PISTON.
  While VTK-m's main focus is on scientific visualization, it can be used as a general purpose library for execution of supported architectures.
  It uses template-meta programming to provide flexible and performant execution, and VTK-m is currently under active development.
  The current version of Alpine uses the tagged 1.0 release that can be found at `Kitware <https://gitlab.kitware.com/vtk/vtk-m>`_ and the user guide can be found at `m.vtk.org <http://m.vtk.org/images/c/c8/VTKmUsersGuide.pdf>`_.

  Supported operations: 

  - Structured volume rendering 
  - Ray tracing

  Access to VTK-m filters are coming in a future release.


Blueprint HDF5
""""""""""""""""
  This pipeline saves published mesh data to a set of hdf5 files that can be read by the  `VisIt  <https://wci.llnl.gov/simulation/computer-codes/visit/>`_ Blueprint plugin (planned to be released with VisIt 2.13).
  
Empty
"""""
  The empty pipeline contains all the boilerplate code needed to started implementing a custom pipeline and is meant to serve as a staring place for those that wish to create a pipeline from scratch.

Commit message:

the second great renaming (#38)
* the second great renaming

* renaming ascent_ascent file

* renaming uber packages

* more spack renaming

* small name change

* adding package for szip since the file has changed on the hdf5 website

* fixing spack package call

* adding install to szip

* updating conduit v0.2.1 checksum since it somehow changed.

* Renaming FindAscent.cmake in using with cmake example

* fixing travis config

* further fixes to travis config

* Updating clip to the lastest vtkm master

src/docs/sphinx/Overview.rst, after:

.. ############################################################################
.. # Copyright (c) 2015-2017, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.. #
.. # Produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
.. #
.. # LLNL-CODE-716457
.. #
.. # All rights reserved.
.. #
.. # This file is part of Conduit.
.. #
.. # For details, see: http://software.llnl.gov/ascent/.
.. #
.. # Please also read ascent/LICENSE
.. #
.. # Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.. # modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.. #
.. # * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer below.
.. #
.. # * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer (as noted below) in the
.. #   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.. #
.. # * Neither the name of the LLNS/LLNL nor the names of its contributors may
.. #   be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.. #   specific prior written permission.
.. #
.. # THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.. # AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.. # IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.. # ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL SECURITY,
.. # LLC, THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.. # DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.. # DAMAGES  (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.. # OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.. # HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.. # STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.. # IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.. # POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.. #
.. ############################################################################


Ascent Overview
=================

This overview was distilled from `Ascent: A Batch In Situ Visualization and Analysis Infrastructure for Multi-Physics Simulation Codes <http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2828625>`_ . This paper was presented at the `ISAV 2015 Workshop <http://vis.lbl.gov/Events/ISAV-2015/>`_, held in conjunction with SC 15, on November 16th 2015 in Austin, TX, USA.

Requirements
-------------------
To guide the development of Ascent, we focused on a set of important in situ visualization and analysis requirements extracted from our interactions and experiences with several simulation code teams. Here are Ascent's requirements broken out into three broader categories:

Support a diverse set of simulations on many-core architectures.
  - Support execution on many-core architectures
  - Support  usage  within  a  batch  environment (i.e.,no simulation user involvement once the simulation has begun running).
  - Support the four most common languages used by simulation code teams:  C, C++, Python, and Fortran.
  - Support for multiple data models, including uniform, rectilinear, and unstructured grids.
  
Provide a streamlined interface to improve usability.
  - Provide  straight  forward  data  ownership  semantics between simulation routines and visualization and analysis routines
  - Provide a low-barrier to entry with respect to developer time for integration.
  - Ease-of-use in terms of directing visualization and analysis actions to occur during runtime.
  - Ease-of-use in terms of consuming visualization results, including delivery mechanisms both for images on a file system and for streaming to a web browser.
  
Minimize  the  resource  impacts  on  host  simulations.
  - Synchronous in situ processing, meaning that visualization and analysis routines can directly access the memory of a simulation code.
  - Efficient execution times that do not significantly slow down overall simulation time.
  - Minimal memory usage, including zero-copy usage when bringing data from simulation routines to visualization and analysis routines.


System Architecture
-------------------
The Ascent sytem architecture is composed of several components:
  * **Conduit**: `Conduit <http://software.llnl.gov/conduit/>`_  is used to describe and pass in-core mesh data and pipeline options from the simulation code to Ascent.
  * **In Situ Pipelines**: Ascent contains a number of in situ pipelines that implement simple analysis, rendering, and I/O operations on the mesh data published to Ascent. At a high level, a pipeline is responsible for consuming the simulation data that is described using the Conduit Mesh Blueprint and performing a number of actions defined within Conduit Nodes, which create some form of output.
  * **Data Adapters**: Simulation mesh data is described using Conduit's `Mesh Blueprint <http://software.llnl.gov/conduit/blueprint_mesh.html>`_, which outlines a set of conventions to describe different types of mesh-based scientific data. Ascent provides internal Data Adaptors that convert Mesh Blueprint data into a more a more specific data model, such as VTK-m's data model. Ascent will always zero-copy simulation data when possible. To simplify memory ownership semantics, the data provided to Ascent via Conduit Nodes is considered to be owned by the by the simulation.
  * **IceT**: Ascent uses IceT for scalable distributed memory parallel image compositing.
  * **Embedded Web Server**: Ascent can stream images rendered from a running simulation to a web browser using the Conduit Relay's embedded web-server.


System Diagram
--------------
..  image:: images/AscentSystemDiagram.png
    :height: 600px
    :align: center


Pipelines
-----------------
  Ascent can be configured with one or more of the following pipelines. 
  When multiple pipelines are built with Ascent, available pipelines can be selected at runtime.
  A pipeline has three main functions: consume simulation data, perfrom analysis (optional), and output data.
  Data describing the simulation mesh is sent to the pipeline within a Conduit Node which is formatted according to `Conduit Blueprint <http://software.llnl.gov/conduit/blueprint.html>`_.
  Once the data is in a compatible format, the pipeline can optionally perfrom some analysis operations, and then output the results. 
  Currently, the VTK-m pipeline output images to either the file system or to the web browser, and the HDF5 pipeline creates and HDF5 file.




VTK-m
"""""
  VTK-m v1.0 is a header only library (future versions will exist as a static or shared library) that uses a data-parallel programming model.
  VTK-m was created from the merging of three efforts: DAX, EAVL, and PISTON.
  While VTK-m's main focus is on scientific visualization, it can be used as a general purpose library for execution of supported architectures.
  It uses template-meta programming to provide flexible and performant execution, and VTK-m is currently under active development.
  The current version of Ascent uses the tagged 1.0 release that can be found at `Kitware <https://gitlab.kitware.com/vtk/vtk-m>`_ and the user guide can be found at `m.vtk.org <http://m.vtk.org/images/c/c8/VTKmUsersGuide.pdf>`_.

  Supported operations: 

  - Structured volume rendering 
  - Ray tracing

  Access to VTK-m filters are coming in a future release.


Blueprint HDF5
""""""""""""""""
  This pipeline saves published mesh data to a set of hdf5 files that can be read by the  `VisIt  <https://wci.llnl.gov/simulation/computer-codes/visit/>`_ Blueprint plugin (planned to be released with VisIt 2.13).
  
Empty
"""""
  The empty pipeline contains all the boilerplate code needed to started implementing a custom pipeline and is meant to serve as a staring place for those that wish to create a pipeline from scratch.
