src/docs/sphinx/Publications.rst, before:

.. ############################################################################
.. # Copyright (c) 2015-2017, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.. #
.. # Produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
.. #
.. # LLNL-CODE-716457
.. #
.. # All rights reserved.
.. #
.. # This file is part of Conduit.
.. #
.. # For details, see: http://software.llnl.gov/ascent/.
.. #
.. # Please also read ascent/LICENSE
.. #
.. # Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.. # modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.. #
.. # * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer below.
.. #
.. # * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer (as noted below) in the
.. #   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.. #
.. # * Neither the name of the LLNS/LLNL nor the names of its contributors may
.. #   be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.. #   specific prior written permission.
.. #
.. # THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.. # AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.. # IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.. # ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL SECURITY,
.. # LLC, THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.. # DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.. # DAMAGES  (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.. # OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.. # HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.. # STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.. # IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.. # POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.. #
.. ############################################################################

Publications and Presentations
==============================

Publications
------------

- `Strawman: A Batch In Situ Visualization and Analysis Infrastructure for Multi-Physics Simulation Codes <http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2828625>`_ . This paper was presented at the `ISAV 2015 Workshop <http://vis.lbl.gov/Events/ISAV-2015/>`_, held in conjunction with SC 15, on November 16th 2015 in Austin, TX, USA.
- Optimizing Multi-Image Sort-Last Parallel Rendering. This paper was presented at the `IEEE Symposium on Large Data and Analysis (LDAV) 2016 -  <http://www.ldav.org/>`_, held in conjunction with IEEE Vis, on October 23rd 2016 in Baltimore, MD, USA.
- `Performance Modeling of In Situ Rendering <http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3014936>`_ . This paper was presented at `SC16 <http://sc16.supercomputing.org/>`_.


Presentations
-------------

- Panel: In Situ Efforts and Challenges in Large Data Analysis and Visualization, LDAV October 23rd 2016, Baltimore, MD.
- DOE Computer Graphics Forum, April 26-28 2016, Monterey, CA.

Commit message:

Task/vtkh to blueprint (#47)
* Adding color table and camera controls to render

* moving detail namespace

* adding white space

* end-to-end example of providing data to adios filter through an mpi unit test

* Add in details for ADIOS runtime.

* adios support for uniform topology

* make adios optional

* add adios spack pkg, finish wiring up adios

* vtkm to blueprint conversions

* try to resolve ci mpi adios build issue

* tests do not need -DPARALLEL to compile

* first step in handling multi-domian case

* adding support for domain overloading

* ensure blueprint

* cleanup for adios filter

* changing vtkm version number

* updating clover actions file

* modifying lulesh example

* fixing noise example

* removing debug print of filter

* changing the extract iso value to produce data

* change multi-domain example var name to avoid confusion with braid

* use domain_id instead of domain

* fix multi domain out for vtkh to relay

* a few docs + pubs updates

* change alpine_par to alpine_mpi

* add mpi smoke test src

src/docs/sphinx/Publications.rst, after:

.. ############################################################################
.. # Copyright (c) 2015-2017, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.. #
.. # Produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
.. #
.. # LLNL-CODE-716457
.. #
.. # All rights reserved.
.. #
.. # This file is part of Conduit.
.. #
.. # For details, see: http://software.llnl.gov/ascent/.
.. #
.. # Please also read ascent/LICENSE
.. #
.. # Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.. # modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.. #
.. # * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer below.
.. #
.. # * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer (as noted below) in the
.. #   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.. #
.. # * Neither the name of the LLNS/LLNL nor the names of its contributors may
.. #   be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.. #   specific prior written permission.
.. #
.. # THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.. # AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.. # IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.. # ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL SECURITY,
.. # LLC, THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.. # DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.. # DAMAGES  (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.. # OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.. # HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.. # STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.. # IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.. # POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.. #
.. ############################################################################

Publications and Presentations
==============================


Publications
------------

- `The ALPINE In Situ Infrastructure: Ascending from the Ashes of Strawman <https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=3144769.3144778>`_  This paper will be presented at the `ISAV 2017 Workshop <http://vis.lbl.gov/Events/ISAV-2017/>`_, held in conjunction with SC 17, on November 12th 2017 in Denver, CO, USA.

- `Performance Impacts of In Situ Wavelet Compression on Scientific Simulations <https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=3144769.3144773>`_  This paper will be presented at the `ISAV 2017 Workshop <http://vis.lbl.gov/Events/ISAV-2017/>`_, held in conjunction with SC 17, on November 12th 2017 in Denver, CO, USA.

- `Projecting Performance Data Over Simulation Geometry Using SOSflow and Alpine <https://vpa17.github.io/pdfs/VPA_2017_wood.pdf>`_ This paper will be presented at the `VPA 17 Workshop <https://vpa17.github.io/>`_, held in conjunction with SC 17, on November 17th 2017 in Denver, CO, USA.

- `PaViz: A Power-Adaptive Framework for Optimal Power and Performance of Scientific Visualization Algorithms <https://www.osti.gov/scitech/biblio/1366964>`_ Presented at the `EGPGV 2017 Symposium <http://www.vis.uni-stuttgart.de/egpgv/egpgv2017/>`_, held in conjunction with EuroVis 2017, on 12 June,  Barcelona, Spain

- `Performance Modeling of In Situ Rendering <http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3014936>`_ Presented at `SC16 <http://sc16.supercomputing.org/>`_.

- `Optimizing Multi-Image Sort-Last Parallel Rendering <http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7874308/>`_ Presented at the `IEEE Symposium on Large Data and Analysis (LDAV) 2016 <http://www.ldav.org/>`_, held in conjunction with IEEE Vis, on October 23rd 2016 in Baltimore, MD, USA.

- `Strawman: A Batch In Situ Visualization and Analysis Infrastructure for Multi-Physics Simulation Codes <http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2828625>`_ Presented at the `ISAV 2015 Workshop <http://vis.lbl.gov/Events/ISAV-2015/>`_, held in conjunction with SC 15, on November 16th 2015 in Austin, TX, USA.




Presentations
-------------

- `IXPUG Software-Defined Visualization Workshop <https://www.ixpug.org/events/swdvis-2017>`_ May 23, 2017, Austin, TX.
- Panel: In Situ Efforts and Challenges in Large Data Analysis and Visualization, LDAV October 23rd 2016, Baltimore, MD.
- DOE Computer Graphics Forum, April 26-28 2016, Monterey, CA.


.. note::

  This list also includes work related to Strawman, Ascent's predecessor.
