src/docs/sphinx/QuickStart.rst, before:

.. ############################################################################
.. # Copyright (c) 2014-2018, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.. #
.. # Produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
.. #
.. # LLNL-CODE-666778
.. #
.. # All rights reserved.
.. #
.. # This file is part of Conduit.
.. #
.. # For details, see: http://software.llnl.gov/conduit/.
.. #
.. # Please also read conduit/LICENSE
.. #
.. # Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.. # modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.. #
.. # * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer below.
.. #
.. # * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer (as noted below) in the
.. #   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.. #
.. # * Neither the name of the LLNS/LLNL nor the names of its contributors may
.. #   be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.. #   specific prior written permission.
.. #
.. # THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.. # AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.. # IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.. # ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL SECURITY,
.. # LLC, THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.. # DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.. # DAMAGES  (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.. # OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.. # HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.. # STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.. # IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.. # POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.. #
.. ############################################################################

.. _quick_start:

================================
Quick Start
================================


Installing Ascent and Third Party Dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The quickest path to install Ascent and its dependencies is via :ref:`uberenv <building_with_uberenv>`:

.. code:: bash

    git clone --recursive https://github.com/alpine-dav/ascent.git
    cd ascent
    python scripts/uberenv/uberenv.py --install --prefix="build"


After this completes, ``build/ascent-install`` will contain an Ascent install.

We also provide spack settings for several well known HPC clusters, here is an example of how to use our settings for NERSC's Cori System:

.. code:: bash

    python scripts/uberenv/uberenv.py --install --prefix="build" --spack-config-dir="scripts/uberenv/spack_configs/nersc/cori/"


For more details about building and installing Ascent see :ref:`building`. This page provides detailed info about Ascent's CMake options, :ref:`uberenv <building_with_uberenv>` and :ref:`Spack <building_with_spack>` support. We also provide info about :ref:`building for known HPC clusters using uberenv <building_known_hpc>` and a :ref:`Docker example <building_with_docker>` that leverages Spack.


Public Installs of Ascent
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

NERSC Cori Install
++++++++++++++++++++

We have a public ascent install for use on NERSC's Cori System. This install was built with the default
gnu compiler (8.2.0). You need to use `module load gcc` to use this install.


The install is located at ``/project/projectdirs/alpine/software/ascent/current/cori/gnu/ascent-install``.

Using Ascent in Your Project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The install includes examples that demonstrate how to use Ascent in a CMake-based build system  and via a Makefile.

CMake-based build system example (see: ``examples/ascent/using-with-cmake``):

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/using-with-cmake/CMakeLists.txt
   :lines: 46-69
   :dedent: 2


Makefile-based build system example (see: ``examples/ascent/using-with-make``):

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/using-with-make/Makefile
   :lines: 46-61
   :dedent: 2

Commit message:

summit build script and docs about summit public install (#490)
* add summit install script

* add docs for public summit install

src/docs/sphinx/QuickStart.rst, after:

.. ############################################################################
.. # Copyright (c) 2014-2018, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.. #
.. # Produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
.. #
.. # LLNL-CODE-666778
.. #
.. # All rights reserved.
.. #
.. # This file is part of Conduit.
.. #
.. # For details, see: http://software.llnl.gov/conduit/.
.. #
.. # Please also read conduit/LICENSE
.. #
.. # Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.. # modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.. #
.. # * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer below.
.. #
.. # * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.. #   this list of conditions and the disclaimer (as noted below) in the
.. #   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.. #
.. # * Neither the name of the LLNS/LLNL nor the names of its contributors may
.. #   be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.. #   specific prior written permission.
.. #
.. # THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.. # AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.. # IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.. # ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL SECURITY,
.. # LLC, THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.. # DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.. # DAMAGES  (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.. # OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.. # HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.. # STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.. # IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.. # POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.. #
.. ############################################################################

.. _quick_start:

================================
Quick Start
================================


Installing Ascent and Third Party Dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The quickest path to install Ascent and its dependencies is via :ref:`uberenv <building_with_uberenv>`:

.. code:: bash

    git clone --recursive https://github.com/alpine-dav/ascent.git
    cd ascent
    python scripts/uberenv/uberenv.py --install --prefix="build"


After this completes, ``build/ascent-install`` will contain an Ascent install.

We also provide spack settings for several well known HPC clusters, here is an example of how to use our settings for NERSC's Cori System:

.. code:: bash

    python scripts/uberenv/uberenv.py --install --prefix="build" --spack-config-dir="scripts/uberenv/spack_configs/nersc/cori/"


For more details about building and installing Ascent see :ref:`building`. This page provides detailed info about Ascent's CMake options, :ref:`uberenv <building_with_uberenv>` and :ref:`Spack <building_with_spack>` support. We also provide info about :ref:`building for known HPC clusters using uberenv <building_known_hpc>` and a :ref:`Docker example <building_with_docker>` that leverages Spack.


Public Installs of Ascent
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

NERSC Cori Install
++++++++++++++++++++

We have a public ascent install for use on NERSC's Cori System. This install was built using the default
gnu compiler (8.2.0) with OpenMP and MPI support. You need to use `module load gcc` to use this install.


The install is located at ``/project/projectdirs/alpine/software/ascent/current/cori/gnu/ascent-install``.


OLCF Summit Install
++++++++++++++++++++

We have a public ascent install for use on OLCF's Summit System. This install was built using the default
gnu compiler (6.4.0) with OpenMP and MPI support. You need to use `module load gcc` to use this install.

.. warning::
    This install exists on a file system that is occasionally purged. We are looking for a better place to put our world accessable installs.

The install is located at ``/gpfs/alpine/world-shared/csc340/software/ascent/current/summit/openmp/gnu/ascent-install/``.


Using Ascent in Your Project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The install includes examples that demonstrate how to use Ascent in a CMake-based build system  and via a Makefile.

CMake-based build system example (see: ``examples/ascent/using-with-cmake``):

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/using-with-cmake/CMakeLists.txt
   :lines: 46-69
   :dedent: 2


Makefile-based build system example (see: ``examples/ascent/using-with-make``):

.. literalinclude:: ../../examples/using-with-make/Makefile
   :lines: 46-61
   :dedent: 2
